foreign
December 2015 SpaceX landed an orbital
Falcon 9 rocket booster back on the
earth for the first time in the history
of human space flight and in the eight
years since SpaceX Remains the only
rocket provider who can accomplish this
feat in fact no one else has even tried
so what's the deal with that
how did SpaceX come out of nowhere and
LeapFrog over companies that had already
been launching rockets for decades could
it be that Elon Musk is an unprecedented
super mega techno genius yeah maybe but
we think that there's a much more
fascinating and satisfying answer to be
found here so let's get into it
this is the space race if there is one
defining factor that sets SpaceX apart
from the rest of the Aerospace industry
it is the reusable rocket SpaceX has
completely reinvented this technology in
a way that no one has ever dared to
dream but that's not entirely true is it
obviously someone down the line must
have had the thought that maybe it would
be better to try and keep these gigantic
rocket boosters instead of just sending
them to the bottom of the ocean every
time and we all know that the space
shuttle was already reusable right even
blue origin can land their rocket
booster the same as a falcon 9. if you
ask other leaders in the Aerospace
industry they'll try to tell you that
reusable Rockets are not actually any
more economical or sustainable than the
traditional method and that Landing a
booster is more of a parlor trick than
an innovation so what is it that really
sets SpaceX apart then to find the
answer we have to go back to the
beginning beginning the first rocket
boosters to ever send a payload into
outer space were simply reconfigured
intercontinental ballistic missiles the
Titan II which served as the launch
booster for NASA's Project Gemini was
originally designed to send a 9 Megaton
nuclear warhead halfway around the world
so there's only so much we can
realistically expect them to do when it
came time for the Apollo missions to the
Moon NASA was ready to design their
first bespoke orbital rocket the Saturn
V it was a humongous vehicle that to
this day still dwarfs nearly every
rocket ever produced and yet only the
relatively tiny crew capsule at the very
top ever returned to the Earth the rest
was either dumped in the ocean left
floating in space or abandoned on the
surface of the Moon this seems like a
waste of money and resources but in
reality it was the preferred option for
NASA to make the Saturn V entirely
disposable this was the most economic
choice at the time because the Saturn V
was only ever intended to fly around a
dozen missions and it was calculated
that the cost to build 12 disposable
Rockets would still be cheaper than
developing just one reusable rocket
besides the engineers at Nasa were
already looking towards the future even
before the first person set foot on the
moon NASA was developing their space
shuttle concept a fully reusable rocket
plane and booster system that would be
the true answer to sustainable human
space flight NASA's Chief Architect of
the Saturn V Werner Von Braun perfected
his concept for the ferry rocket back in
the mid-1950s the former Nazi rocket
scientist would come to be known in
America as the father of space travel we
didn't really find out about the Nazi
thing until after he was dead so we can
only appreciate how screwed up this was
in hindsight anyway the fairy rocket was
going to be the vehicle that brought
human spaceflight to the mainstream the
three-stage rocket would be fully
reusable with the two first booster
cores come coming down softly on
parachutes and the third stage Orbiter
gliding back to Earth for a Runway
Landing we should probably do a full
video someday just on the fairy rocket
concept alone what do you think let us
know in the comments below anyway you'll
notice that this all sounds pretty
similar to what the space shuttle ended
up being yet still quite different in
the fundamental design while the space
shuttle has generally been built as a
reusable space plane the more correct
terminology is generally considered to
be refurbishable but what's the
difference if you go to an airport you
can watch a plane land unload its
passengers and cargo then get rapidly
cleaned restocked and refueled before
taking on a load of passengers and
lifting off into the sky yet again that
all happens within the span of about an
hour or maybe even less so we can safely
say that a commercial airplane is
reusable now if that same airplane had
to be fully disassembled inspected
serviced and put back together after
every single flight does that still fit
the same definition of reusable not so
much and it certainly doesn't sound like
a sustainable way to operate a
commercial airline that is the issue
that NASA faced with their space shuttle
it could technically be reused which fit
the initial criteria that the agency was
granted by U.S Congress when the shuttle
was funded back in 1972 but the
procedure involved to actually get a
space shuttle and its twin booster
engines back on the launch pad after
being flown just one time ended up
totaling around 650
000 hours of combined labor spent on
transporting and refurbishing the system
obviously that all happened
simultaneously not sequentially
otherwise it would take 74 years to
refurbish one space shuttle the thing
about reusable Rockets is that they are
only valuable if the frequency of
launches is great enough to outweigh the
cost of developing and utilizing the
technology so like we were saying before
this is how NASA decided it was cheaper
to launch 12 display disposable Rockets
instead of developing one reusable
system and at what point does a reusable
rocket actually start to make sense
economically how many launches does that
take NASA never really had the chance to
find out not only did the Space Shuttle
need more work to refurbish than had
been expected it never flew anywhere
near as frequently as NASA envisioned
either in the end it would have been
cheaper or at least just as expensive
for NASA to throw every space shuttle in
the garbage after one flight and build a
whole new one so if you want a good
answer as to why none of the commercial
rocket companies ever tried to develop
their own reusable vehicle it's because
they already saw what happened with the
space shuttle not only the most
expensive rocket ever developed but also
the most dangerous and probably the
least successful at fulfilling its
original design concept and if NASA
couldn't do it then obviously no one
else would even stand a chance right
[Music]
I want to talk about something super
important our internet privacy whenever
you're online your device transmits a
ton of information out into the open
hackers on the same Wi-Fi network can
steal your personal data with ease
including sensitive information like
passwords keystrokes and even your
photos but don't worry our superhero
sponsor private internet access is here
to save the day it protects your
personal data by encrypting your
internet connection making your
information shielded and bulletproof
plus it comes with loads of
entertainment benefits Pia VPN works
with all major streaming services and
has 84 countries to choose from and all
50 U.S states so you can access more
content anywhere in the world and the
best part private internet access is
available for all platforms and with one
subscription you can protect an
unlimited amount of devices at the same
time so the whole family can be
protected and guess what I've got a
special exclusive offer for you you'll
get a discount on your subscription and
a 30-day money-back guarantee so it's
risk-free and if you ever need help
they're 24 7 customer support is
available and don't just take my word
for it private internet access is rated
excellent based on over 8 500 reviews so
if you care about your internet privacy
and want to access more content check
out private internet access I've put a
link in the description box below so you
can stay safe and stay protected
then Along Came SpaceX who decided that
they will succeed where all others have
failed now to be fair SpaceX did come at
the problem from a much different angle
than NASA had taken with the shuttle and
in many ways their approach with the
Falcon 9 does make a lot more sense from
a logistics standpoint something that
SpaceX had envisioned from the very
start of their development with the
Falcon 1 rocket was a recovering and
reusing both the first stage booster and
the upper stage vehicle by having them
execute a propulsive return to launch
site and Landing maneuver now they gave
up on recovering the second stage pretty
early on and that's a reasonable
concession to make because with a
conventional rocket the upper stages a
relatively simple vehicle that consists
of just one engine a couple of small
fuel tanks and a platform that holds the
payload until it's time to deploy but
recovering the first stage booster is a
much more valuable proposition as long
as you can make that booster fully
reusable not just refurbishable and then
fly it off often enough to make the
extra effort worthwhile of course SpaceX
opted for the most technically
challenging recovery method there is the
propulsive landing this was
unprecedented territory back in Warner
Von Braun's old fairy rocket concept the
booster stages would fire their engines
on the return to Earth as a way to help
slow them down but ultimately they would
land in the ocean water under giant
parachutes and NASA had successfully
recovered the space shuttle's twin
booster engines by simply parachuting
them back down following stage
separation so why didn't SpaceX use
parachutes on their Falcon booster short
answer they tried but physics wouldn't
allow it parachuting the shuttle
boosters worked for two reasons one they
were pretty small and pretty light being
solid rocket boosters once all of the
propellant is burnt up they're basically
just empty metal tubes two the shuttle
boosters separated at a relatively low
altitude and therefore a relatively low
velocity of just around 40 3 800
kilometers per hour they were only
really necessary to get the shuttle off
the ground and through the thickest part
of the atmosphere after that the shuttle
still had three incredibly powerful
hydrogen burning rs-25 engines that
continue pushing to reach orbital
velocity in a single core two-stage
rocket like the Falcon 9 that one
booster has to impart a tremendous
amount of velocity into the upper stage
so that the final vacuum engine can
continue to accelerate the payload into
orbit this means the Falcon booster will
fly much higher and faster reaching a
speed over 8 000 kilometers per hour at
stage separation the formula for kinetic
energy is one half mass times velocity
squared which in the case of a falcon 9
booster that just released an orbital
payload equals way too much energy for
any parachute to withstand that is why
Von Braun envisioned the hybrid of
engine D acceleration combined with
parachute assisted Landing but this is
Elon Musk philosophy we're talking about
now and the best part is no part the
rocket already has engines so why bother
adding parachutes to lower velocity when
the engines can do the exact same thing
the engines on the Falcon 9 also serve a
dual purpose as a free heat shield to
protect the booster as it re-enters the
atmosphere so in the case of a drone
ship Landing scenario the Falcon 9
booster is going to coast up and clear
through the atmosphere crossing over the
carbon line and technically being in
space for about a minute or so but since
it's not traveling at orbital velocity
the booster is eventually going to fall
back down as this begins to happen the
booster is going to flip around and
point its engines in the opposite
direction to perform a re-entry burn the
maneuver is going to start killing a ton
of the booster's Velocity which is
important but even more critical the
thrust from the engines will create a
force field underneath the rocket that
protects the metal from the extreme heat
of re-entry that's when you see the
crazy jellyfish fish looking cloud of
smoke and fire build up underneath the
rocket as it's coming back down it looks
awesome then the booster will Coast down
through the atmosphere losing more
velocity to friction as it's guided in
by aerodynamic grid Fizz at the last
moment the engines will reignite one
more time to make sure that the booster
velocity reaches zero at the moment that
the landing legs touch down on the
floating platform this is a procedure
that SpaceX has now repeated well over a
hundred times and these days they make
it look pretty easy but that was not
always the case it took SpaceX a lot of
trial and error and multiple upgrade
Cycles to the Falcon 9 before they could
truly stick The Landing most people
might not realize that the Falcon 9 was
not a genuine reusable rocket until
SpaceX achieved its final form in 2018
known as the block 5. most Rockets don't
really go through an active development
cycle once they begin operation the
design they have on the first successful
launch is more than likely going to be
what they stick with throughout the life
cycle of the product and that's because
Rockets are very temperamental and
dangerous Vehicles anytime you change a
design you introduce an unknown variable
which could then in turn lead to a
failure and no one wants that unless
you're SpaceX another bit of Elon
philosophy if things are not failing you
are not innovating enough let's start
with the Falcon 9 version 1. the first
iteration of this rocket was actually a
lot smaller at just about 46 meters in
total length and a lot less powerful at
just 1.1 million pounds of thrust even
though SpaceX had already intended to
make Falcon 9 a reusable booster this
version didn't receive any of the
necessary grid fins or Landing legs to
make that possible they wanted to make
sure that it went up properly before
they thought too much about getting it
back down this Falcon 9 flew five
missions including one to send a cargo
Dragon capsule to the ISS next up is
Falcon 9 version 1.1 this variant grew
significantly to over 68 meters in
length it was the first to utilize the
Merlin 1D engine and the circular
octaweb engine layout this increased the
total thrust to 1.3 million pounds that
extra size and power made this the first
Falcon 9 capable of a controlled return
to Earth because it could get a payload
into orbit with enough fuel left over to
perform the necessary re-entry and
Landing Birds SpaceX began experimenting
with this capability in small scale
tests where they would attempt to bring
the rocket down for soft Landings over
the open ocean it wasn't until the crs-3
mission to resupply the ISS in April
2014 that the Falcon 9 received its
first set of Landing legs and then for
crs-5 in January 2015 the first set of
grid fins were added to achieve more
precise control when free-falling
through the atmosphere this gave SpaceX
the confidence to attempt their first
ever drone ship landing on that that
same flight it didn't work but they got
surprisingly close for something that
was thought to be genuinely impossible
at the time none of the version 1.1
Rockets ever successfully landed and
then in June 2015 the Falcon 9
experienced a mid-air failure and broke
apart this gave SpaceX enough pause to
shut down operations until they were
able to come back with another revision
to the booster design Falcon 9 version
1.2 is also sometimes referred to as
Falcon 9 full thrust just slightly
longer now reaching 70 meters in length
and getting a massive increase in power
to 1.7 million pounds of thrust most of
this power gain came from SpaceX cooling
their liquid oxygen and Rocket Fuel to
lower temperatures which increases their
energy density this is where SpaceX
really followed through on their promise
to learn through failure because the
first launch of the Falcon 9 full thrust
also marked the first successful Landing
of an orbital rocket booster in the
history of space flight with the booster
touching down onto a SpaceX landing pad
at Cape Canaveral the full thrust went
through a series of small tweaks and
variations over the years as SpaceX
prepared to finalize the rocket into its
ultimate form the reason that they had
to do this was in order to get the
Falcon 9 crew raided by NASA it's fine
to play around with variables when there
is only money and equipment on the line
but once it's agreed that a rocket is
safe to carry human beings then you have
to stop messing with it so we arrive at
the Falcon 9 Block 5. it's the exact
same size as the previous version and
only slightly more powerful at 1.8
million pounds of total thrust the most
obvious visual cue to identify these
variants is the black paint in the
middle and on the landing legs the real
upgrades here are being made to increase
the overall reusability of the rocket
booster remember we talked about the
difference between reusable and
refurbishable the Falcon 9 full thrust
was refurbishable in some situations but
for the most part SpaceX only recovered
those boosters they didn't reuse them
very often the first SpaceX launch to
use a refurbished Falcon 9 happened in
March 2017 and it made use of a booster
that had been recovered over one year
prior as far as changes with the block 5
SpaceX upgraded the turbo pumps inside
their Merlin engines when it was
discovered that the units formed a very
small micro cracks after being launched
and recovered the grid fins on the side
of the rocket were also made stronger
with an upgrade from aluminum to
Titanium metal at the time these fins
were the largest single pieces of forged
titanium ever made and therefore
incredibly expensive but this gave them
a much greater resistance to the heat of
re-entry and greater control over the
Rocket's angle of attack as it coasted
through the air the entire body of the
Falcon 9 was given a thermal protective
coating that reduced heat absorption
across the entire rocket in addition a
new reusable and replaceable liquid
cooled heat shield was added to the base
of the rocket for greater protection of
the engines and plumbing system the
block 5 Landing legs were upgraded to
allow them to both extend and retract
the previous legs actually couldn't fold
back up after the rocket was recovered
they had to be unbolted and removed
SpaceX also made an improvement to the
cpovs on the Block 5. these are ultra
high pressure tanks that are wrapped in
carbon fiber they are used to store
helium gas that maintains pressure
inside fuel tanks as they empty and a
copv failure was linked to both of the
previous Falcon 9 explosions one in air
and one on the launch pad
it's been five years now since SpaceX
made all of those reusability upgrades
to the Falcon 9. so what do they have to
show for it did they make a truly
reusable rocket earlier this summer on
July 10th SpaceX successfully launched
and landed Falcon 9 booster b1058 for
the 16th time this is the same booster
that launched astronauts Doug Hurley and
Bob benkin to the International Space
Station in May 2020 the first time a
crew had ever flown on a SpaceX rocket
so that's 16 flights in just over three
years SpaceX had originally believed
that the Falcon 9 block 5 would be good
for up to 10 launches and landings but
that lifespan projection increased to 15
launches in 2022 and right now SpaceX
has certified b1058 for up to 20
launches and based on extended life
vibration testing by SpaceX Engineers
they think that the block 5 could
withstand as many as 60 launches and
Landings for comparison the Space
Shuttle Discovery completed 39 missions
more than any other shuttle in the fleet
on average there were only between five
and eight space shuttle launches in any
given year with 135 total missions
spread across 30 years and five vehicles
so that's not a whole lot of precedent
to work with but according to the
numbers that we do have yeah the Falcon
9 is an extremely reusable rocket
booster and a good one at that so now
all we have left to do is sit and wait
for the next leap forward to begin can
the Starship take reusable Rockets to
the next level
meet us back here every week for more
updates on everything Aerospace industry
and Interstellar exploration related
make sure to give the video a thumbs up
today if you liked it that really helps
us out for real and subscribe to the
Space Race for more videos just like
this we do one long form essay and one
news update every week and if you'd like
more we've got two more on the screen
for you right now
