far we do you think from that and how
how excited or scary does that seem to
be and we read these headlines obviously
about monkeys who died as you know what
should we think about that uh yeah
actually the this
is the USDA inspector who who came by
neuralink facilities literally said in
her entire career she has never seen a
better Animal Care
Facility it is we are the nicest to
animals that you could possibly be even
to the rats and mice even though they
did the plague and everything um so uh
it is it is like monkey Paradise
um so uh the thing that gets conflated
is that there were some terminal monkeys
where you know this is long this is
actually several years ago where the
monkeys were about to die and we're like
okay we've got an experimental device
it's a kind of thing which only put on a
monkey that's about to die and then you
know now the monkey died but it didn't
die because of the new link it died
because it was you know had a terminal
case of cancer or something like that
so
uh neur link has has never caused the
death death of a monkey I unless they're
hiding something from me has never
caused death of a monkey and in fact
we've we've now had monkeys with
neuralink implants for I think 2 three
years and they're doing great so
um and we've even replaced the new or l
twice uh and it's and and we're getting
ready to do to do the first uh implants
in hopefully in a few months um
the the early implementations of
neuralink I think are unequivocally good
speaking of the double-edged sword I
think these early implementations are
single-edged swords um because the first
implementations will be to enable people
who are have lost the brain Body
Connection uh to be able to operate a
computer or a phone faster than someone
who has hands that that work um so you
can imagine if Steph Hawking could
communicate faster than someone um who
had full full body functionality how
incredible that would be well that's
what this device will do um and we
should have proof of that in a human uh
hopefully in a few months um it already
works you in monkeys and works quite
well um with monkeys that can play video
games just using just by thinking um so
and the next application after um the
the for those you know dealing with
cetopic and quad quadriplegics is going
to be um Vision vision is the the next
thing so it's like if somebody is like
has
um lost both eyes or the optic nerve has
failed basically whether's they have no
possibility of having sort of some
ocular correction the that will be the
next thing uh for neur link is a direct
uh Vision interface and in fact then you
could be like Jord Le Forge from from
Star Trek you could you could see in
like any frequency actually you could
see in radar if you
want
