this episode is sponsored by cash app
when your personal finances connect you
to your funds and the things that matter
that's money and that's cash app you
know what else is money Bigger Better
Burger balls meltier cheese through
science and getting to eat potato rolls
as part of your job that's money and
that's cash app download cash app from
the app store or Google Play Store to
add your cash tag to the 80 million and
Counting how do you like it medium
American cheese American cheese is the
best cheese for a cheeseburger because
it melts without splitting how much will
that set me back 9.95
that come with fries
Nails yeah sure there's the fryer still
on yeah sure
crinkle cut or Julian hey what's up guys
welcome back to binging with babish for
this week we're taking a look at that
amazing looking burger from the menu
which had an MSRP of ten dollars and
promising to elicit the burger memories
from childhood I like to imagine goes a
little something like this first some
very thinly sliced onions that appeared
to be sliced pulled to pull just showing
off how not of a professional chef I am
Frozen crinkled cut fries cooked in 375
degree fahrenheit's worth of peanut oil
about three to five minutes until deeply
golden brown and crisp tossed of course
with kosher salt while still nice and
warm Burger balls of four ounces size
just enough so that they'll be thick
enough that we can potentially cook them
to medium a hearty Sesame seeded burger
bun split and toasted in just a little
bit of oil on a cast iron skillet
removed and replaced with two four ounce
balls of high quality 80 20 ground beef
then not so much smashed as smeared
almost as though you're pressing down in
a bit of beefy masonry helping prevent
any sticks from occurring to the spatula
seasoned generously on one side with
kosher salt and freshly ground black
pepper then Chef prepares his burgers
Oklahoma style that is with our thinly
sliced onions lightly pressed into the
burger meat before flipping effectively
spot welding griddled onions into the
bottom of the Patty as soon as they're
flipped both patties are topped with two
slices of yellow American cheese these
are left to Simply Melt while the
patties finish cooking then one patty is
premeditatively placed upon the other
and both are transported to the awaiting
toasty bun and mountain of french fries
so there you have it an amazing classic
double cheeseburger with fries probably
overpriced at 9.99 but still capable of
eliciting memories of all the grape
Burgers you've had in your life now I
doubt that they had craft singles and
sesame potato buns getting shipped out
to the Private Island restaurant so what
would it take to make this burger
Gourmet and from scratch without
engaging in as Margot puts it fancy
deconstructed out on let's
start by making our own big beautiful
potato buns into the bowl of the stand
mixer goes 415 grams of bread flour 75
grams of potato flour 2 tablespoons of
sugar and a tablespoon each instant
yeast in kosher salt tiny whisk together
before adding 170 grams of water 110
grams of whole milk and 2 eggs at room
temperature hook it up shut it down and
commenced to kneading until things just
come together into a Shaggy ball
anywhere from one to three minutes then
to give our buns a luxuriant brioche
like texture we're going to start adding
50 grams of unsalted room temperature
butter one tiny Cube at a time making
sure that each Cube has disappeared
completely into the dough before adding
the next this process should take about
three to five minutes plenty of time to
develop your dose gluten now at this
point you might notice some fear in my
fingers because my dough is very sticky
and slack but especially with brioche
I've seen very wet doughs come together
and become handleable so if things look
a little too wet early on just keep
working it until it easily passes the
window pane test but after eight or so
minutes of meeting if things are still
too sticky it's not too late to add a
little bit more potato flour it is after
all easier to add dry late in the game
than it is to add wet so just keep
dusting with more potato flour until the
dough is workable and bouncy and supple
place in a generously oiled bowl and
cover with plastic wrapped bulk ferment
at room temperature for about an hour
and a half unless you suddenly remember
that you have a dove proofer and since
we're pretending that we're working in a
restaurant we can use that at and thus
in a little less than an hour my dough
has doubled in size so now I'm going to
retrieve it from the bowl weigh it and
divide it into five equal pieces in this
case about 190 grams each once divided
we're going to roll them into tight taut
little balls arrange them on a parchment
lined baking sheet maybe a little bit
more spaced out than that and I like to
Pat them down a little bit so they don't
rise too much up and not enough out and
I'm gonna give them a little Spritz with
non-stick spray and cover them with
plastic wrap and since this tray doesn't
fit in my proving drawer I'm inflating
it with air from my nice warm lungs
which should help them rise over the
next hour during which time they should
nearly double in size now to test our
proof we want to poke the dough if it
Springs back too completely or too
quickly we want to cover and left proof
for another 15-20 minutes until our poke
leaves an indent that doesn't really
puff all the way back out next we gotta
prolifically brush these guys down with
a whole egg that's been beaten together
with a pinch of kosher salt not only to
give them that deep Brown glossy
exterior but so that we can adhere
mountains of sesame seeds to the outside
rinse and repeat with the remaining buns
and then these guys are headed into a
preheated 375 degree Fahrenheit oven for
anywhere from 8 18 to 22 minutes until
they emerge too big way too big I mean
we're trying to go for an over-the-top
burger here but I think that these are a
bridge too far so let's try again with
the dough divided into six pieces for a
much more reasonable but still pretty
gigantic bun that we're gonna let cool
completely on the tray next up the
matter of American cheese which as was
mentioned is the perfect cheese for a
burger because it can melt without
splitting but using this technique from
modernist cuisine you can make American
cheese out of any kind of cheese you
want like this stuff a mixture of sharp
Cheddars gouda Colby and Monterey Jack
but you can pick 32 ounces of the
relatively young shredded cheese of your
choice once shredded over on the
stovetop in a large wide saucepan we're
gonna bring 12 ounces of whole milk to
the simmer notice that the tripod is off
kilter give that a tip and then into the
milk we're gonna whisk one and a half
ounces of sodium citrate a simple food
additive used in Molecular Gastronomy
that I figured they'd probably have on
hand once that's up to a bare simmer
we're gonna add all the cheeses at once
reduce the heat as low as it'll go and
use an immersion blender to blend the
cheese and the milk together into a
devastatingly creamy smooth cheese
product now this stuff sets up almost
immediately so make sure you have a loaf
band lined with plastic wrap ready to go
pour all the cheese stuff in there and
then tap it against the table top with
great Vigor in a hapless attempt to
remove any errant bubbles cover this and
refrigerate for at least four hours or
until completely set and there you have
it one big old loaf of American Cheese
Style product next up the fries which
were prepared crinkle cut in
anticipation of this I ordered a crinkle
cutter which to my disappointment wasn't
even remotely sharp as though were
designed for already cooked food or
Play-Doh or something as a result these
six potatoes would take 45 minutes for
me to hand carve into crinkle cut fries
not much of a lesson be learned here
apart from don't buy a crinkle cutter
that you can rip in half with your bare
hands now the potatoes that we're using
today are russet potatoes very high in
starch so they will begin to almost
immediately oxidize and discolor which
is why we're immediately plunging them
into a pot of cold water then rinsing
them three more times to remove any
excess starch then finally we're
covering them once again with cold water
and adding one tablespoon each kosher
salt and white vinegar this both going
to season the potatoes and help them
retain their shape during their absurdly
long 20 to 30 minute cook time we want
them almost falling apart in this method
appropriately adapted from Heston
Blumenthal I'm very carefully retrieving
the fries and placing them in a wire
rack set in a rim baking sheet where
they can cool the steam that you're
seeing just like all steam is moisture
the less excess moisture in the potatoes
the lighter and fluffier the interior of
our fries are going to end up once
cooled completely these guys are headed
into the freezer for at least four hours
or until frozen solid then they're
getting their second of three Cooks a
low temperature fried 275 degree
Fahrenheit peanut oil almost like a
potato confit at first they're going to
sit kind of eerily silently on the
bottom of the pot but before long
they'll start fizzing and floating and
all the stuff that you expect fries to
do once they just barely start getting a
little bit of color on them we're gonna
fish them out and let them drain on a
paper towel lined baking sheet then I'm
carefully arranging them back on the
rack making sure nobody's overlapping
everybody's sleeping head to toe and
back into the freezer they go for at
least four hours or up to a few months
if you want to make these ahead of time
strain all the particulate out of your
oil and when it's time for the final fry
these guys are now headed into 375
degree Fahrenheit oil for three to five
minutes until deeply golden brown and
crisp fish them out drain them on paper
towels and toss them with kosher salt
while they're still nice and hot and
there you have it our meticulously
handcrafted crinkle Cuts versus
store-bought not a super fair comparison
to make the store-bought ones are as
good as you can expect better out of the
fryer than out of the oven but these
triple cook guys are in A League of
Their Own the fried exterior is super
thick and cragly and the interior is
creamy and tender even after all the
time and care and hand crinkle cutting
if you ask me worth it last up the meat
and I figured they're working with some
pretty nice meat at Hawthorne so I've
got my favorite Cuts here short rib for
fat brisket for flavor and chuck roast
for Chuck I'm discarding any sinew or
connective tissue and cutting all the
meat and fat into one-inch cubes letting
these guys hang out in the freezer for
about 20 minutes before being passed
through the medium plate of a thoroughly
chilled meat grinder for a lovely pebbly
fatty extraordinarily flavorful Burger
blend now something interesting to me
was that this was a Smash Burger being
cooked to medium doneness so I'm opting
for Behemoth six ounce balls which I'm
hoping is going to give us enough width
to fill our buns and enough height to
maintain a little pink this feels about
as appropriate a time as any to bust out
the flat top oil it up toast our buns
preheat to smoking and commence to
Smashing from this point on it's the
same procedure as before but I ran into
a wrinkle everything was going Grand
until the time came to apply the
American cheese when retrieving it from
the fridge I noticed that it was quite
soft it tasted great looked like it was
going to melt well but would it pass
through my slicer and the answer is sort
of been very smary soft thick slices
which on the day of the shoot I thought
looked fine but now that I'm sitting
down to edit it I'm noticing it looks
pretty scraggly so I'll be right back
I'm gonna run downstairs and make a half
batch of the cheese base for which I'm
going to try a different method to
imitate Deli slices for starters I've
got a pizza steel that's been sitting in
a 275 degree Fahrenheit oven along with
a sheet pan that I've lined with a
non-stick baking mat I'm hoping to use
this as a sort of reverse Cold Stone
Creamery a nice hot surface upon which I
can spread the cheese as thinly as
possible before it sets this ended up
working like a charm which is good news
because I'm filming this less than 24
hours before you're watching it let's
get a nice thin sheet of cheese I'm
gonna throw this in the fridge for a few
minutes until it's solidified invert it
onto a more cut friendly surface like
parchment paper break off the edges
first and then peel away the baking mat
revealing our sheet of American cheese
break it down in slices and then it's
ready for much more photogenic Burger
melting now that we all agree that I've
redeemed myself I can eat this and go
back upstairs and pick up where I left
off at which point I'll realize that the
original burger didn't really look that
bad to begin with and maybe I didn't
need to do all that quick before this
gets too meta let's cut to a slow motion
Burger Squish and can we get the chef's
table text nice eat your heart at David
gilb anyway so yeah this turned out
awesome just one of the cheesiest
burgeriest experiences imaginable in
fact let's go back to the chef's table
cam at the text yeah that that does it
justice and while this burger costs a
few more bucks to make what it really
cost was time so I guess that poses the
ultimate question about fine dining or
whatever thanks again cash app that's
money that's cash app download cash app
from the app store or Google Play Store
to add your cash back to the 80 million
and Counting
[Music]
