[Applause]
hey there guys Paul here from the
engineering mindset calm in this video
we're going to be looking at Ohm's law
to understand how it works as well as
how to use it there are also two
problems at the end of this video for
you to test your knowledge and see if
you can solve so what is Ohm's law Ohm's
law is a relationship between voltage
current and resistance and how they
relate to each other
Ohm's law was developed by German
physicist named Georg ohm who undertook
many experiments to develop his theory
including measuring current by touching
live electrical circuits to see how much
it hurt as you might imagine the higher
the current the more it hurt now there
are three formulas we need to use for
Ohm's law but we don't actually need to
remember these and I'll show you a super
easy tip in just a moment so the three
formulas we use for Ohm's law are
voltage equals current multiplied by
resistance current equals voltage
divided by resistance and resistance
equals voltage divided by current if
that seems like a lot to remember
then don't worry because we don't need
to remember them all we need to remember
is Ohm's triangle which looks like this
so you just need to remember these three
letters in order V I R then we just
write those letters in a triangle with V
at the top and we draw a line to
separate the letters in fact you don't
even need to remember those because I've
made a free pdf guide for you with some
worked examples but you can keep on your
PC or your mobile and access wherever
you need links for that can be found in
the video description down below now all
we do when we need to use a formula is
cover up the letter we need so if we
want to find the voltage then we write V
equals and then we cover up the V in the
triangle that leaves us with I and R so
we write I multiplied by R which means
voltage equals current multiplied by
resistance you can write a little
multiplication symbol in the triangle
between the two letters if it helps you
now I know you're thinking why is
current represented with a letter i' and
not a c' for current or even a letter a
for the unit of ampere or the unit of
current is the ampere or the amp
and this is named after Andre Empire a
French physicist a couple of hundred
years ago he undertook lots of
experiments many involved varying the
amount of electrical current so he
called this intensely do current or the
intensity of current so when he
published his work they took the letter
I and it became standard until this day
now you might also come across formulas
where the letter e is used instead of V
the letter e stands for EMF or
electro-motive force but don't worry
about that just stick to using V and
substitute the for e if you see it using
Ohm's law questions anyway so by
covering V we get voltage equals current
multiplied by resistance if we want to
find current then we write down I equals
and then we cover up the letter I in the
triangle that gives us V and R so as V
is above the are like a fraction we can
write V divided by R therefore current
is equal to voltage divided by
resistance if we want to find resistance
then we write down our equals and we
cover up our in the triangle that leaves
us with V and I M so we write V divided
by I which gives us resistance equals a
voltage divided by current let's look at
some examples for how to use these
formulas first let's see how we find
voltage and how it relates to the other
parts let's say we have a simple
electrical circuit with a battery and a
resistor we don't know what the voltage
of the battery is though the resistor is
3 ohms and when we connect a multimeter
into the circuit we see that we get a
reading of 2 amps of current we want to
find the voltage so using Ohm's triangle
we can cover up the V and that gives us
V equals I multiplied by R we know the
current is 2 amps and we can write that
in and we know the resistance is 3 ohms
so we can write that in also therefore 2
amps multiplied by 3 ohms gives us 6
volts the battery is therefore 6 volts
now if you want to check your answers
for ohms questions then I've built a
free calculator on the website you can
just drop your numbers in and it will do
the calculation for you links for that
again in the video description down
below coming back to the circuit if we
now double the voltage by connect
two six volt batteries in series we get
12 volts if we now connect this to the
same circuit the current also doubles
from two amps to forums if we double the
voltage again to 24 volts the current
will also double to eight vamps so
what's the relationship here
we can see that current is therefore
directly proportional to voltage if we
double the voltage we double the current
remember voltage is like pressure is the
pushing force in the circuit it pushes
the electrons around the wires and we
place things like lamps in the way of
these electrons so that they have to
flow through these and that causes the
lamp to light up by doubling the voltage
we see that the current also doubles
meaning that more electrons are flowing
and this occurs as we apply more
pressure on more voltage this is just
like if we were to use a bigger water
pump then more water will flow
okay so what about finding current let's
say we now have a three ohm lamp
connected to a six volt power supply
to find the current we write down I
equals and then we cover up I in the
triangle that gives us V / R so current
equals voltage divided by resistance we
know the voltage is 6 volts and the
resistance is 3 ohms so the current is
therefore 2 amps and that's what we see
on the multimeter by the way if you
don't have a multimeter than I highly
recommend you get one it's essential for
troubleshooting but also building your
essential electrical knowledge I will
leave some links down below for which
one to get and from where so we saw what
happens when we use a resistance of 3
ohms in the circuit but if we double the
resistance to 6 ohms by placing another
3 ohm lamp into the circuit the current
have such as 1 amp if we double the
resistance again to 12 ohms the current
will half again to 0.5 amps we can
visually see this because the lamps will
become less bright as the current
reduces from the increase in resistance
so what's the relationship here we can
see that the current is inversely
proportional to the resistance when we
double the resistance the current will
decrease by half if we half the
resistance the current will double
current is the flow of electrons or the
flow of free electrons for us to make
this lamp shine we need to push
electrons through it how do we do that
we apply a voltage across the two ends
the voltage will push the electrons the
atoms inside the copper wire have free
electrons in their valence shell which
means they can very easily move to our
bure copper atoms they will naturally
move to other atoms by themselves but
this will be in random directions which
is of no use to us for the lamp to turn
on we need lots of electrons to flow in
the same direction when we connect a
voltage source we use the pressure of
the battery to push the electrons
through the circuit all in the same
direction for example to power this 1.5
ohm resistor flamp with the 1.5 volt
battery requires 1 amp of current this
is equal to six point iliyan 242
quadrillion electrons passing from the
battery and through the lamp every
second and if we can achieve this
then the lamp will stay at full
brightness if the voltage or current
reduces or the resistance of the circuit
increases then the lamp will become
dimmer okay now let's look at finding
resistance say we have a resistive lamp
connected to a 12 volt power supply we
don't know how much resistance is adding
to the circuit but we measure the
current as 0.5 amps to find the
resistance we write down R equals and
then we cover up the R in the triangle
we're left with V and I so resistance
equals voltage divided by current we
know the voltage is 12 volts and the
current is 0.5 amps so 12 divided by 0.5
gives us 24 ohms of resistance
resistance is the opposition to the flow
of electrons it tries to prevent
electrons from flowing that's why we use
resistors in circuits to reduce the
current and protect components such as
an LED if we try to connect an LED
directly to a 9-volt battery it will
blow out because the voltage and the
current are too high but when we add a
resistor into the circuit the knees are
reduced so the LED is protected and will
shine brightly so given the circuit we
can increase the current by increasing
the voltage or we can also increase the
current by reducing the resistance
we can also reduce the current by
increasing the resistance okay time for
you to test your skills can you solve
these problems or leave a link for the
answer and the solution in the video
description down below problem 1 let's
say we have this lamp which has a
resistance of 240 ohms if we plug this
into an outlet in the US which uses 120
volts what will the current be
problem two if I plug the same 240 ohm
resistant lamp into an outlet in the UK
we get a current of zero point nine five
eight amps so what is the voltage being
applied here okay guys that's it for
this video but to continue learning then
check out one of the videos on screen
now and I'll catch you there for the
next lesson don't forget to follow us on
Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn as
well as the engineering mindset calm
