at first glance to the human eyeball the
sky above our heads looks totally black
like there's nothing there but just
stars and empty space but this couldn't
be further from the truth at all the sky
above our heads is full of gas dust
Stars galaxies it's a beautiful place up
there and hidden amongst all of these
gases and dusts there are still
undiscovered nebula and that is what
this video is about the discovery of the
nares Supernova Remnant SNR
g175
d5.2 so the discovery of this nebula
actually happened right here at this
very t telescope at Sierra remote
Observatory and back in May of 2022 I
put this thing to use to capture a large
Panorama of the night sky covering the
constellations from cus all the way to
copia now this huge 40 panel image that
I captured was massive and this took me
months now back then uh those were
simpler times I wasn't really aware of
the possibility of discovering something
or how that would look or how that even
happened I was inspired by one of my
co-discoverers Marcel Drexler and Xavier
strutner Marcel Drexler from Germany 4
No 41 years old interested in
astrophotography since
2016 that was a time when I uh built up
my own observatory in uh benstein where
I live uh it's near the Czech Republic
first discovered a new object in 2018
and that was the point I was in infected
by uh by the Astro virus Marcel took a
big long look through this Panorama and
he
identified several interesting
structures one of which being the
Supernova Remnant which we are talking
about today I knew it immediately yes
yes I'm very familiar with uh structures
like like this and I saw this this
filamentary uh O3 structures and I I I
knew immediately oh
this may be a a new supernova supernova
Remnant so I I checked the databases for
for uh the coordinat I was a little bit
confused about uh um that such a big
structure is is not in the in the
databases because there are so many
Radio band surveys uh for the northern
and the southern hemisphere such a
bright uh object uh should have been uh
discovered is it nearly impossible that
a thre degree Supernova Remnant is uh
unknown to uh to science no way so what
exactly is a supernova Remnant it's
exactly what it sounds like it's the
remains of a supernova explosion a
supernova is formed by a couple
different types of things but in general
it's when a high mass star runs out of
its Fuel and it undergoes what's known
as a core collapse all stars are a
delicate balance between gravity and the
force of fusion and radiation pressure
at the stars core essentially gravity is
pushing down on this big clump of matter
and at the heart there is the fusion
reaction occurring which is pushing
outward on that huge ball of mass and
these two forces are in a delicate
balance throughout the star's entire
life as the star switches through which
element it's currently fusing for fuel
the balance of that force will change
over time and so the star's size and
temperature will fluctuate over its life
depending on what kind of star that is
if the star has a mass exceeding about 8
times that of our own Sun then it's
large enough to undergo a core collapse
Supernova and this occurs as a heavy
star Works its way up the periodic table
through elements until it finally is
able to fuse iron in the very center at
its core and when a very massive star
begins to fuse iron this reaction
actually takes energy away from the
system and the star can no longer
support itself against the force of
gravity that's pushing inward what
happens next is all the layers of the
star begin to freefall towards the core
at up to 23% the speed of light and then
once all of this matter becomes densely
packed enough it reflects off of the
iron core creating a ton of neutrinos
and the inward collapse is reversed
outwards in a massive explosion known as
a supernova and these massive explosions
generate tons of heat and tons of
radiation that help to ionize the
surrounding gas along with all those
layers of the star that got ejected
outwards and these are the sources for
many beautiful nebulas that
astrophotographers look at like the veil
nebula the vea nebula Supernova remnants
are all over the sky and they form these
special Jagged filamentary structures
that make them very easy to identify
then the initial exploration of the
object actually happened with Yan STI
out with their telescope in Morocco how
do you uh how did you get into Astro I
started in 2020 during the first
lockdown for Co I uh I had a a home with
a garden I said why not trying
astrophotography so I buy my my first
telescope I tried to uh take a picture
with my son to share it with my friends
and it was really horrible so I searched
on Google how to take good pictures with
my telescope and I discovered a really
new world and French we
said I fa I felt in this p and and I'm
here now with you the same story as I
would say during the lockdown of the
covid um I I was interested in the
photography since 10 years ago but for
astrophotography I saw some pictures on
Facebook internet and I ENT interested
to to see how it was done and I started
with a simple camera a modified camera
and little lens and it started so with
so big big big nebulas such as North
America and then uh when we start in
autop photography it it quickly becomes
a a deating patient I would say actually
the very same telescope model I'm using
here they did the first initial
exploration into this object and
uncovered that this thing likely is a
supernova Remnant first test were in
Morocco in Atlas SK Observatory trying
to know the shape to choose the framing
uh so first test was an O3 nhha so as
I'm filming this here this is the final
night that I will be capturing this
Supernova Remnant for my telescope P SRO
in total I've spent probably close to
100 hours on this object this is future
BR here to give you the complete
breakdown in terms of who captured what
and the specific details of the
collaboration because there's a lot of
people who worked on this and I want to
get down everyone's exposure times
properly there was me Yan Nico and
Richard gley Richard spent one night
capturing the super nova Remnant he used
pretty much the same scope SC the same
camera as all of us Yan spent a very
large number of nights uh it looks like
somewhere on the order of 26 separate
nights capturing the Supernova Remnant
from both Morocco and from France along
with Nico who also spent five nights
capturing the Supernova Remnant I spent
a total of about 18 nights capturing the
Supernova Remnant and then to wrap
everything off Yan spent an extra four
nights just to capture a bit more of the
deep dust in the background so that was
four people who did C Capture Me Yan
Richard and Nico in total all said and
done we finished off with 258 hours and
32 minutes of exposure time which is
pretty mind-numbing so finally after
almost a year of work I got my telescope
ready for one last capturing night on
the copia Supernova Remnant which we've
decided to call the nades nebula after
collecting together all of the exposure
between between everyone who was working
on the project we got it all stacked
together and Marcel produced a final
finished version of the image which was
Far Beyond any of our own
expectations on first glance one might
think this part of the night sky is
nothing but empty space and stars
however that's not true there's quite a
bit of background dust in this area that
helps to fill in the void but wait until
you see the narrow band there is a quite
tenuous amount of ha signal and even
some hints that there might be a greater
object here however nothing very
decisive in terms of structure we can
see some tenuous filaments but when we
turn on the oxygen 3 emission now all of
a sudden this Supernova Remnant comes to
life and we can finally see the whole
structure of this
[Music]
thing
the brightest part of this Remnant which
led to its Discovery was the Eastern
filament cluster seen here full of tons
of fine ha and O3 filament structures
especially when I turn the Stars off you
can get a really nice idea for just how
complex the structure of the Supernova
Remnant
[Music]
is
I think my favorite part of the object
is this southwest bow front in 03 just
has such a cool bendy filament structure
and the ha filaments on the south region
of the nebula are really cool looking as
[Music]
well let's take a look at how big the
Supernova Remnant actually is in the
night sky so this thing takes up about
3° of our field of view across the night
sky which is absolutely massive for any
nebula this makes it one of the largest
nebulas in the sky in general in fact
you could fit six whole full moons
comfortably across the expansion of the
entire Supernova remant which is
insane so let's take a break down of the
filters used for the image and how the
structures compare in each band pass
first we'll separate out the O3 and the
ha and take a closer look at the intense
oxygen 3 filaments like I said the
overwhelming majority of this nebula is
just ionized oxygen emission which is a
characteristic of some special types of
supernova remnants and this is
suggestive of the nature of this object
the hydrogen Alpha on the other hand is
pretty weak and tenous in almost every
part of the image except for here the
northeastern filament cluster the
brightest part is this region which is
the interstellar media shock front where
the essentially the shock hits
Interstellar gas and of course the
southwestern filaments are really cool
as
well how was the editing like I can
probably tell that that was uh a big
slog Fest to pull your eyes out how long
did it take you in total and what was
the experience it it took me in total
about 50 hours it was it was the the
most challenging and the most time cons
consuming but the most satisfying
editing project I've ever done and uh I
am a Photoshop native uh since 25 years
and it took my my whole uh expertise and
and Photoshop skills to uh to manage
this prop uh this uh project probably
yes it it was very tough extremely tough
yes so one of the most relevant
questions that everyone is probably
going to have is how was this thing not
noticed by anyone before and it's pretty
much a perfect storm of conditions that
made this discovery possible um the best
explanation I think uh because this huge
giant monster monster three degrees in
diameter shows uh not an x-ray
not in uh UV not in uh not in radio
emissions and this is such a a rare
constellation that in in no nothing in
in in this three bands I think this is
the reason why the scientists uh don't
discover this extreme big object and
people U may think when you see this uh
this bright picture oh it must be uh
discovered and why don't we have SE it
we are stupid know it's it's an extreme
faint uh object even in in 03 I uh
studied a lot of of H Alpha surveys just
like vtss even some pictures from uh
Sean Walker from The Andy MDW survey and
when you don't know it's there you don't
see it it's definitely definitely a
surprising discovery yes the other
elephant in the room explanation as to
why this thing Happ hasn't been noticed
is obviously the structure is composed
pretty much entirely out of ionized
oxygen gas or the O3 emission line which
is a green tealish color of light that's
really highly associated with high mass
star deaths and a lot of different
interesting planetary nebula and some
newer unknown Interstellar emission
nebula regions and this filter band is
one that's very poorly understood in the
context of the entire night sky it
hasn't really been studied by
Professionals in any way that's
comprehensive and so there is a high
likelihood of encountering things in
this wavelength that are unknown to
humanity to science or to anyone and
such is the case with this Supernova now
earlier I said that the fact that this
thing is mostly 03 hints towards its
nature this is because certain types of
supernova remnants are created by
certain types of supernovas which you
know this can tell you a little bit
about how this object formed now I have
to preface this I didn't go to school
for astrophysics so I'm no professional
in this regard but I can offer you my
best guesses as to what this is so for
supernovas broadly speaking there's two
types of supernovas there's a type one
Supernova and a type two Supernova type
two supernovas show hydrogen in their
emission Spectra so basically if you go
look at a supernova while it's occurring
or you perhaps go look at its Remnant
it's going to contain hydrogen emission
lines in its Spectra if it's a type two
now this is because hydrogen is the fuel
source which every Star uses at the
start of its life and so if a star still
has some of that hydrogen around when it
goes boom you're going to see that in
its Spectra somewhere type one Supernova
on the other hand do not show hydrogen
in their emission Spectra and if they do
it's likely some sort of interaction
with the interstellar media where
there's just hydrogen atoms sitting
around in space that get ionized by the
detonation however there is a particular
type of supernova Remnant that's a type
one called a type 1B core collapse
Supernova this is also referred to as a
stripped core collapse Supernova so
essentially a very massive star will
shed all of its outer layers early in
its life you can think of a star like a
wolf rot type star which is going to
shed out all of its outer layers
containing the hydrogen and create a
nice pretty nebula now eventually the
star will run out of the rest of its
fuel but it still has enough Mass left
over to go supernova and so when it does
go through a core collapse it's not
going to show any hydrogen inside of its
spectrum and it's going to be dominantly
composed of other elements that are left
with inside the star or the stripped
core because this is a stripped core
collapse Supernova and so commonly if it
is going to show a Remnant at all it
will show very brightly in the oxygen 3
or faintly in the oxygen 3 and nothing
else and I believe this is what's
happening in this scenario so why did we
settle on the name the Nares Supernova
Remnant or the Nares nebula now this
comes as a bit of an inspiration from
Greek mythology based around the
constellation where this thing lives
this nebula lives in the constellation
of copia and so we drew inspiration of
the story of copia and a little bit of
the story of cus in Greek mythology
there was copia the queen and sephus the
the king they lived somewhere in the
Mediterranean but copia said some things
that really upset the god Poseidon she
boasted that her daughter was more
beautiful than all of the nids or the
Nares these are the C nymph Daughters of
God nerus and so Poseidon being very
angry he decided to bring the Wrath down
upon their Kingdom with the sea monster
cedus and at this point they all fled
Copus daughter Andromeda was chained to
a rock but was eventually saved by
Perseus Poseidon however thought that
copia shouldn't be able to escape
punishment and so she was chained to the
chair in the sky the constellation copia
for eternity that's kind of a dark
meaning to the constellation copia but
this is where we got the name for the
nebula from the C nymphs how did you
come up with the naming story because
this is something I always struggle with
I see in a morphis blob and I can only
think to associate it with this looks
like the veil nebula so I'm just going
to call it Veil part two I I always lack
that creativity with finding a good name
it's Marcel who think about n first we
tried to look in the find a name who
will fit after a lot of research we came
back to the first name n marel f because
it fits perfectly the colors the
filament so the first name was the
perfect one but we had a lot
of a lot of other other suggestions I
think uh Nicola you you said it looks
like a manay yes yes another another
name was the citus or or Kus nebula and
we had a lot other ideas because it's
it's in copia it's it's the Ring of
copia or the the wheel of of copia but
it it sounds uh yeah ridicul ridiculous
and and not very fitting uh yeah and
then the group decided nurat it's it's
the nurat nebula and I I think the name
is is quite fitting because what Jans
say uh said of the fine filaments uh
resembling the the dancing sea nymphs
and yes I think it's it sounds really
cool what what does this mean to you
what's the significance to you
personally of the image the
collaboration the discovery how does it
make you feel I don't even realize what
we are what we what we did I I think
because I think the most for Risha it
was its dream to to discover a
new and uh yes I am very happy for him
to for having helped to discover a newr
and uh all my my things go to to R
because I could shoot with h scope and
it was a unique opportunity for me to
yes to to help for this project I would
say but uh as soon as I saw the the work
from Marcel with the with the completed
Stars I was yes what what a slap I took
on my face it was yes incredible what
what an emotion yes for me the the image
is amazing the Discover is amazing
but I think it's really cool to show
that passionates all around the world
can work together and in doing something
amazing it's lot of time lot of energy
but together we uh we can motivate each
other we can do really really more than
alone and it's so so cool to share
something like that with friends the
image is cool the discovery is cool The
Experience together is for me the best
for me it took a while to to realize
what we have here in in our hands we
shall not forget it's probably the the
biggest Supernova Remnant ever
discovered by amus science knows uh much
bigger Supernova remnants but the
remnant with the size of the the wheel
nebula um and the diameter of uh six
full moons discovered by
by chance by independent astronomers
that's that is that is such uh it's so
special and uh because it's it's it's
even so rare we have here um 100 180 AR
minutes monster in in
cupia it's it's right in front of our
doorstep
it's it's it's unbelievable and and that
makes it so so special and and of course
the
collaboration uh for me such a
collaboration uh over three continents
Yan and Nicola and rishar in in France
uh you in in the US and in Germany that
is such a big thing especially in in in
the actual times for me it's it's very
special very cool for me it's I've been
so inspired by your guys' work and
everything I do it's the arc is always
in my mind in any spot of the sky
anytime I'm like I'm wasting hope that
always lives in the back of my head at
any moment when I feel like I've I'm
surveying so far and there's been
nothing for a week anything is possible
because because I know from what these
guys did so it's inspiring to work
together with you guys that have been
such an inspiration for my photography
and it's a it's a cool moment and it's
not going to be the last
one definitely not definitely not no
well we all hope you enjoyed that video
explaining the discovery of the Nares
nebula I wish I could offer you all some
more scientific information but as this
is a new nebula not much is known apart
from what I can guess more research is
going to be done into this Remnant by
the scientific part of our team led by
Rob Feen he will do some research into
this and hopefully I'll be able to come
back eventually with some more
information it's been wonderful being a
part of this discovery being a part of
this team and for now I'm going to leave
you with some closing words from Marcel
in German and from mean in French for
the native Europeans watching since this
was an international collaboration thank
you all for watching and I'll catch you
all in the next Discovery yes as I said
for me it was a real privilege to to
participate to this adventure and yes a
big thank you for for having trust in
[Music]
me
[Music]
EX
[Music]
mer
