they say that the heart is a muscle so
in order for it to get stronger you have
to train it to failure and while America
is speedrunning that in real time today
we're talking about breakups breakups
also known in this economy as finding
new roommates is when you're in a
serious romantic relationship with a
partner and then say to yourself I don't
want to be with this person anymore you
then think maybe a dog will fix this
when that doesn't work you then think
maybe a kid will fix this but I digress
I didn't mean to drag you into this
conventionally a breakup occurs in fire
stages so I thought I'd go through each
one step by step so you can see where
and if you're on that timeline stage one
the first stage of a breakup is always
the hardest which is finding someone to
date in the first place a reason why
this stage is important is because the
way that you get into a relationship in
the first place can really determine
your individual attitudes towards each
other as it progresses for example when
a girl gets asked out and she says yes
she's thinking wow what a cool guy I'm
so happy my life's going to be so much
better but when a guy asks out a girl
and she says yes he he's thinking uh-oh
she must be an idiot stage two seeing
red flags in the relationship now if
you're watching this and think you're in
a good relationship right now it might
be a good idea to check for signs that
it's heading south before it actually
gets there so I decided to browse r/
relationship advice in order to become
an expert on the topic so I can share
some examples of more subtle red flags
you might not pick up on and how you
should respond let's say you've been
dating your girlfriend for 5 years and
you live together one day she's at work
and you walk into the living room and
see a magazine open on the coffee table
to a jewelry ad you look closer and see
a couple engagement rings that are
circled and one in particular with love
hearts around it how should you respond
exactly she's obviously never mentioned
it but she's clearly cheating on you
with her husband so best to break up and
tell her that you're moving on let's say
you've been on a few dates with a girl
and you feel you have great chemistry
while you're creeping her socials as
usual suddenly she texts you hey I miss
you C can we hang out again soon now
this is of course a great sign but you
don't want to seem too needy so set a
timer for 1 hour so you can respond at
exactly the right time after that a few
minutes go by and then she sends you a
message on Instagram it's a picture of
her in the hospital kissing a bald guy
on the cheek with the caption me with my
stepbrother how should you respond
exactly I know Johnny Sins when I see
him best a wait the remaining 56 minutes
break up and tell her that you're moving
on let's say you're overseas from your
partner and have been in a relationship
as long as you could remember but are
currently having a big fight about the
joint vision of your future you want to
pursue a more down toe existence on your
farm selling hempen cotton clothing
you've grown yourself but they're
reaching their financial Peak and want
to experience the luxuries of life you
message them that you want to end the
relationship but they respond to do what
to run your stupid little farm I'm the
one making all the money how do you plan
on being able to afford to do that
without me subsidizing you how should
you respond exactly you've already
figured out a great way to keep labor
cost down best to just declare
independence and tell them you're moving
on stage three the breakup while
breakups aren't fun for anyone men in
particular don't don't usually take
rejection very well whether it's from
girls election results or especially art
school this is because if you're a girl
and your female friend goes through a
breakup the game plan is clear she'll
text we broke up to the group chat then
you all get together immediately have a
few bottles of wine talk some [ __ ] about
their ex tell your friend she deserves
better and then have a pillow fight or
something for guys the game plan is much
more simple he'll text the group chat uh
just a heads up me and Katie broke up
you then reply damn that that [ __ ]
sucks dude you good he'll then say yeah
I'm all right and your job is done what
else could you possibly do now
regardless of whether you're a guy or a
girl whenever you're about to break up
with someone it's likely to start second
guessing your intuition and it would be
worth it if you struggled to replace
them so you have to ask yourself the
most important question to see if you
should go through with it who's going to
pay the other half of the rent while
Boomers and Gen X often complain that if
you live with someone and break up they
get half your net worth this of course
isn't a problem for Gen Z or Millennials
because half of a negative number is
pure profit the real pain of course is
losing custody of the house plants
similarly one of the worst situations to
be in when you're going through a
breakup is when you have kids this is
the worst case scenario because not only
is someone breaking up with you but you
also have kids at some point you really
have to start wondering how you keep
[ __ ] up over and over again stage
four getting over it whenever you go
through a breakup the most important
thing is to not wallow in your own
misery you should only do that if your
ex finds someone new in two weeks and
they're exactly the same as you but
hotter now one of the critical steps of
getting over a breakup is thinking about
how your own attitudes and behaviors
contributed to the relationship falling
apart and what you could do better next
time if you ask a girl what would
prevent another bad breakup happening to
them they might say I should be more
attentive and affectionate maybe
communicate my thoughts more openly
instead of expecting my partner to know
and make sure I don't make them
prioritize my feelings at the expense of
theirs to men self-reflection is of
course way too complicated as we like to
have simple concrete steps rather than
vague hypotheticals which is why why if
you ask a guy what would prevent another
bad breakup happening to them the answer
is a simple two-step process bench three
plates Bugatti Chiron after stage four
we of course have stage four now they
say that one of the best ways to get
over someone is to get under someone
else but when you just gone through a
breakup it's likely been a while since
you've been dating and you might think
well I think I'm a seven so that's what
I'm looking for and then someone else
will say I think you're a five now in
the dating Market this is called a bid
ask spread and is essential to establish
away so you can see approximately what
type of person is in your league this is
why when I get back on Tinder after
breakup the first thing I do is set the
radius to maximum but you can pick any
size of girl you want now if you've only
recently started dating again the first
thing you'll notice is how the dating
meta has completely changed if you're a
girl the first thing you're going to be
thinking is what the [ __ ] is a Riz and
if you're a guy you're going to be
asking yourself why does every girl I
match with keep sending me links to
viruses the good news is that even
though you might still be hurt by your
Fallen relationship through through the
experience you've likely grown a lot as
a person so at least you'll have learned
from your mistakes and won't have to do
it all again stage five do it all again
from this point you simply repeat the
process until you accidentally have a
child or you run out of money or you try
a polyamorous relationship until they go
exclusive and you're the third wheel or
you get back with your ex and make it
work because you overestimated your
other options or you realize that you
can't say you don't like broccoli if
You' never tried it so you add grinder
to their rotation now one of the worst
feelings I've had going through a
breakup was when they said but but are
you sure do you do you really want to
get rid of everything we've done
together I mean I mean maybe you could
just keep me around and and use me when
you want to and as much as it hurt to
hear that Microsoft Edge really sucked
at the time and I never thought I'd have
to do that to someone again until I
found today's sponsor the Opera 1 web
browser one of the best features on
Opera 1 is their Arya AI assistant you
can see I asked at the classic
relationship tester would you still love
me if I was a worm and it answered it
perfectly that made me happy and
fulfilled I did however feel slightly
bad for waking up at 4:00 a.m. to ask it
this question if you tried and didn't
get the relationship advice you wanted
you can also add chat GPT natively to
the sidebar and date that instead in
terms of performance Opera is an
extremely light web browser here I have
Opera open with five tabs of my own
YouTube videos playing and here I have
Chrome open with five tabs of my own
YouTube videos playing another classic
situation we've all found ourselves in
even though it uses its built-in ad
blocker to prevent me from making money
from myself more importantly Opera uses
about 30% less rant meaning it frees up
resources for multitasking or gaming and
if you work in Media or online content
like me it can be a lifesaver as I'm
able to preview a video in Adobe
Premiere for more than an extra minute
before the whole program crashes anyway
if you'd like to give it a try Opera 1
is completely free and the download link
is in the description
[Music]
below okay imagine you and your wife are
90 years old and are both lying in
hospital beds next to each other near
the end of your life after being married
for 60 years you're both holding hands
and you feel her pulse begin to slow she
squeezes your hand with all her
remaining strength tilts her head and
says I'm moving on goodbye and her heart
rate flat lines how should you
respond exactly ho these days ma'am you
can't just break up with someone and
then die get back up beat cancer
redownload Tinder and slap the nurse's
ass on the way out she's clearly going
to hell
