okay I think one of the probably easiest
places to start with like talking about
tech is the Apple Watch the watch
anytime first of all you see any
messaging from Apple about the watch
there's always something health related
in it and it was fascinating the way it
started because Apple kind of didn't
know what the Apple watch was going to
be it was an iPhone accessory but then I
don't know will you like send a digital
heartbeat to your friend or will you
like answer messages or get
notifications and we threw in some
Fitness features and then the world kind
of figured it out and it just turned
into fitness and notifications yeah and
so every single update to the Apple
watch adds some Fitness or health thing
and they have to find a way to sell it
to the public and it gets increasingly
more and more like if you don't have
this you might miss that heart
irregularity that you have and this has
saved X live so far and here's a letter
somebody wrote from the hospital about
how it saved their life
is this uh okay with you it seems like a
pretty wild uh way to get people to get
something they probably don't need I
don't wanna
isolate the Apple watch in this for sure
I think as the tech industry I think
what's happening is they've seen the
value that Health Data has
and increasingly the healthcare tech
industry is and even the healthcare
industry as a whole is being run as a
hedge fund and to me that's where I draw
the line because for example if I tell
you I created
um let's say I'm going to use this water
bottle here let's say I created a grip
for a water bottle that makes it less
likely that it'll slip out of my hands
but I haven't done the research to prove
that that's the case are you going to be
mad about the fact that I'm saying that
it doesn't slip out of your hand
not really right who cares logical but
now what if I say the water that I've
created inside here cures your
depression but I haven't yet tested it
it's kind of a stretch that's the
problem with our current Healthcare Tech
Healthcare hedge fund industry okay no
one is actually going that mile to prove
that something works because that's
really expensive and a lot of times will
backfire because it proves that it
doesn't work and now you've killed your
beautiful product I see yeah I remember
the electrocardiogram coming to the
Apple watch and the entire time I'm
watching this I'm like
I'm gonna have to review this watch and
I'm going to test it and I have no idea
how to tell if the ECG I get from this
watch is good or bad or if it worked or
didn't work but it'll be the first time
I ever do an ECG myself so I guess
that's kind of cool
I don't know how to well I just don't
know what to do with it to be honest as
a doctor and most doctors don't know
what to do with it because like the most
common use example of the features on
the Apple watch is that it'll tell you
your heart rate's High uh there's a
potential risk that you have atrial
fibrillation right which is when your
heart beats irregularly at an irregular
rate I meant to show you this oh did you
have some I got well I started getting
these PVCs these a couple nights ago
yeah low heart rate and it just this is
an athletic Flex right here
because you're a fitness
so I guess it's weird though because
it's notifying me of some health thing
and I'm like is this good bad I don't
know sometimes you get a high heart rate
notification there's all kinds of things
do people ever go to you saying because
my watch told me something is it ever
used no joke what's today today is
Friday yesterday I was in the office uh
gentleman comes in who has a history of
SVT which is a type of fast heart rhythm
that exists and he said that after that
happened to him once he got an Apple
Watch to start tracking when this
happens but here's the interesting part
he knows when it's happening he can feel
it he can feel the palpitations he has
the skills and the techniques necessary
how to shut it down and it happens very
rarely but he's still got the Apple
watch now the Apple watch started
warning him after he played squash that
he would have high heart rates and he
started getting anxious and then he
started getting worse outcomes with his
heart rhythms so you see how the tech is
fire it works it tracks things but what
we do with that information is really
problematic because until we get some
guidance and we gather enough data to
actually make use of it more data just
means more health anxiety more weird
interventions that we don't even know if
they work or not yeah the magic really
is in when the watch notifies you and
specifically how it sort of gives you
and displays the information in a way
that's useful yeah because it can it can
measure all at once but it's not
necessarily like if you go through the
health app and scroll for a while
there's tons of stuff your breath rate
your like heart rate over time and all
these different things VO2 max somehow
knows and I just don't know what to do
with that information I think it's
entertainment purposes only for now the
the one feature on the Apple watch that
I think is really exciting is the fall
notification feature yes and you have a
story of it going off on a roller
coaster that's one that's happened to a
lot of people
um but I'll be running around during a
frizzy practice and chasing somebody
around the field long enough you'll like
stumble and you'll get a little
vibration says are you okay did you
follow did you need me to call see
that's the cool feature it's kind of a
flex though because if you made someone
fall hard enough that they get back
I never thought of it you break
someone's ankles hard enough that they
yeah watch is like are you good bro yeah
I'm good yeah I feel like the we keep
saying Apple watch because it's the one
that seems to plug it in the most but
like obviously pixel Garmin Samsung
they're all doing it and it feels like
they all started focusing on like health
and fitness activity tracking first
um and now they seem to have gone into
more of these like afib VO2 max like uh
fall detection more things that feel
like past I'm trying to live in Active
Health style and more like I'm warning
you about your regular Health style
um I kind of wanted to go over like
could we split that into two maybe from
what you said already it seems like a
lot of it seems kind of nonsensical but
if we can uh not nonsensical but I think
it's but less useful okay and every time
we weigh any kind of medical
intervention we weigh risk benefit right
so if I prescribe a surgery and
medication everything has risk benefits
in fact if something doesn't have a risk
that means it probably doesn't even work
anyway because it has to have the
opposite effect if it does something
yeah so with this Apple watch what I
feel like is happening we're getting
data yeah very limited benefit of what
we can do with said data but definite
harms that I'm seeing as a result of
health related anxiety that's being
fueled by all these alarms so that's how
I make my decisions it's very simplified
yeah do you use any type of trackers
yourself so for example I used to wear
an Apple Watch myself and I remember
watching a UFC fight and I guess because
I've been in the ring yeah I got an
alert for the first time that your heart
rate's been elevated for an extended
period of time well sedentary so while
watching it yeah that happened to me in
hockey playoffs this year I was like
getting it was just like just so you
know you're anxious that I guess makes
sense yes exactly you know that's
happening though so it's easy to dismiss
that I guess like for abnormal heart
rate and stuff it's more of the times
where you're not quite feeling it and
you get that um you said you've already
had it do you think it's stuff like that
how much is that affecting you guys in
the medical field of just getting calls
and patients who are like you said
anxiety specifically my watch told me
okay so now we're kind of talking about
the anxiety and the non and health
important I guess vital disease
notifications like random like fast
heart rate all that but now let's talk
about the atrial fibrillation
notification because that's the one that
could actually have Healthcare
implications we have no idea what to do
with it in the healthcare setting when
you get a random alert like that yes we
can put on a halter monitor monitor you
for seven days which is a little thing
you wear on your chest it monitors it if
you have symptoms like palpitations you
could notify it so when we re read it
back we can go back to the time where
you press it yet symptoms because a lot
of times patients will have some sort of
electrical irregularity in their heart
feel it but then we didn't do the EKG
when that was going on so we don't know
what's going on so the halter allows us
to do that but in general when we have
atrial fibrillation we have rules of how
we decide to treat it how often is it
happening we have scoring systems that
we use based on the patient's age there
are other medical history like little
factors but if it happens very very
rarely and the person's otherwise
healthy with no medical history which is
most of the time what happens when we
get these calls yeah what we do with it
we don't have good evidence to decide
maybe we put the halter monitor on but
then it doesn't catch anything then the
Apple watch Two Weeks Later catches
something again we still don't know what
to do yeah I feel like there's the in
the keynote there's a classic example of
like I got this notification I thought
it was kind of weird I went to a doctor
the doctor confirmed it this thing saved
my life yeah and the the the fitness
things that we wear have such scale
there's so many of them out there that
inevitably there's a couple of those
stories that are real and then when
those stories are the display for like
whether or not you should get the thing
it makes it feel like this is something
everyone should be looking for it's it's
a very
manipulative marketing tool because look
I can say right now let me give you a
CAT scan every day for the next 20 years
and I might be able to catch a Cancer
and we might be able to intervene but
what I'm not telling you is that I'm
also going to be radiating your body
probably producing all sorts of cancers
at the same time yeah so there's there's
a healthy balance that has to exist when
it comes to healthcare Tech where it's
like we tell people what it's possible
to accomplish but then we have to be
honest with the drawbacks otherwise it
gets into Shady territory yeah do you
think there's any type of
and if like the doctor Community has
discussed this before but
there's some people who say like
obviously all these numbers aren't very
accurate but if you follow Trends based
on numbers that you're getting on things
is there like a a best practice of
potentially using these two actually not
just increase healthy lifestyle but also
potentially see
some sort of Health the health app does
show Trends Trends but even just you
reading things yourself like yeah I mean
I get a heart rate variance every
morning when I wake up and like that's
something when I first saw it I research
it and then I'm scared like you said I
I'm exactly who you're talking about
with health anxiety looking stuff up
online sometimes I think this really
helps me sometimes I think this sends me
into a bit of a spiral and I don't know
like for example resting heart rate the
lower the resting heart rate generally
speaking the healthier a person is right
because that usually means they're in
great shape this is why this guy over
here sits at a 40 heart rate going to
sleep but
if you are at a resting heart rate of 75
that's considered normal you're healthy
and let's say you start exercising and
you start lowering that the Apple watch
will show that Trend over the course of
the month yeah but you tracking that
number is purely for it's purely for
entertainment okay because if I as a
doctor encourage you to work out and you
start working out I don't need the Apple
watch to tell me that your resting heart
rate's going to go down yeah that that's
the only time that's really important is
if you're an athlete professionally and
you're trying to go from 99th percentile
of success to 99.5 which the huge
majority of the general public is not
needing these tools but again for
entertainment for motivation fine I'm
with it especially this Tech can evolve
and really will become good I think the
future is bright I don't want to like
poo poo the whole industry I just think
the way that they're selling it now is
premature yeah it kind of reminds me of
uh like we were talking to the CEO of
Riven where a lot of people will get
like this hundred thousand dollar truck
and will never use anywhere near the
capabilities of the truck but the tech
and the capabilities are so good that
it's like once in a while when someone
maximizes its use it's kind of amazing
uh kind of reminds me of like yeah most
people aren't trying to get from the 99
to 99.5 percentile but the people who
are might find this watch Amazing
exactly the new ultra's got this like
Trail climbing mode and all these other
things that are like super super useful
but generally for most of us we're just
kind of like oh neat I should probably
be okay well it's the same thing with
like protein creatine supplements like
you could take these but if you're an
average person and I mean average even
to like a higher degree yeah if you fall
within 90 of people who exercise if you
just focus on a healthy diet and focus
on the routines you're doing
the supplements are going to maybe add
five percent of improvement and again
that's for people who are competing the
average person people who go to GNC and
Vitamin Shoppe and all these and get
these things you're doing it for fun
yeah you're not really changing much
that's fair yeah that's super fair I do
like I I like how you use the term
entertainment I guess it's not something
we've thought about much but like
entertainment doesn't necessarily mean
bad thing like no entertainment is a
motivator as well and like I I pers I
used to play Frisbee with Marquez I had
four knee surgeries and then I had to
quit that eventually and found my
activities like way way down like some
minor things and then I borrowed an
Apple Watch here once and those
competitions they do are like
one of the most things ever identifying
Fitness yes it's like that has super
helped me get into like a way way more
active lifestyle and and that is amazing
but yes on the other hand like what
you're saying like if you're not in that
potentially professional athlete aspect
of things like these things are just
like you can look and be like okay cool
I did it today I knew that already but
it's nice to just see it on my wrist
there's the same way I'm like addicted
to like checking the checkbox like
closing the ring is like yes that's a
satisfying thing look that's the strong
part of this app and these tools and the
motivation of it is exciting and I want
people to make use of it in fact when I
made like one of my first videos on
YouTube it was about how to get fit for
summer it was like get some new workout
gears a Kickstarter to your motivation
the one thing that I'll say is because
I'm again very research based when you
look at research and you see these
initial boosts of Motivation by getting
new gear by getting a Tracker long term
they don't make a difference right you
gotta have a routine and get into
something it's a lifestyle change or you
just need to keep buying things which is
I've fallen into that whole way too many
times yeah new hobby new shoes new
everything yeah all right I asked uh
Chachi BT uh for a joke about a doctor
named Mike
so this is what it wrote oh no why did
everyone at the hospital want to hang
out with Dr Mike
because they were sick
I don't know because whenever he was
around they knew there was always a
microscope
that is so bad I can't believe you had
that ready to go on the board yes so bad
so this is why uh humans are still gonna
own comedy for a little while chechi BT
not so great at that one but hey if you
enjoyed this uh clip maybe uh leave a
like or a thumbs up or uh you should
leave a thumbs down
not for the for the cop why don't
skeletons fight each other why don't
skeletons fight each other why because
they don't have the guts
[Music]
and
end it now
[Music]
