um what was that trip like and obviously
you know that there's a public
perception that and and you're
clarifying this
now um but there's a public perception
that that was part of a apology tour if
you will that this had been said online
there was all of the criticism there was
advertisers leaving we talked to Bob
Iger I they stop you hope don't
advertise you don't want them to
advertise no what do you
mean it if somebody's going to try to
Blackmail me with advertising blackmail
me with money go
yourself
but go
yourself is that
clear I hope it is hey Bob here in the
audience well well let me ask you
then that's how I feel don't
advertise how do you think then about
the economics of of x
if if if if part of the underlying model
at least today and maybe it needs to
shift maybe the answer is it needs to
shift away from
advertising um if if you believe that
this is the one part of your business
where you will be beholden to those who
uh have this
view what do you do
FY I I I understand but there's a
reality
too
right yes no no I Linda Yaro is right
here and she's got to sell advertis
absolutely so um no no toally so so no
actually what what this advertising
boycott is uh is is going to do it's
going to kill the
company and do you think that the I but
and the whole world will know that those
advertisers killed the company and we
will document it in great
detail but there are those advertisers I
imagine are going to say they're going
to say we didn't kill the company oh
yeah they're going to say tell to Earth
but they're going to say that they're
going to say Elon that you killed the
company because you said these things
and that they were inappropriate things
and they didn't feel comfortable on the
platform right that's that's what
they're going to say and let's see how
Earth responds to
that so okay this then this goes back to
we we'll both make our cases right and
we'll see what the outcome is what are
the economics of that for you I mean you
you have enormous resources so you can
actually keep this company going for a
very long time would you keep it going
for a long time if there was no
advertising I mean if the company fails
because of an ad advertising boycott it
will fail because of an advertis boycott
and that will be what bankrupted the
company and that's what all everybody on
Earth will
know what do you think then of the this
goes back to the idea of trust though
then it'll be gone and it'll be gone
because of an advertised
boycott but but you recognize that some
of those people are going to say that
they didn't feel comfortable on the
platform and I I wonder I just wonder
and ask you and and think about that for
a second tell it to the judge but the
but the judge is going to be the judge
is the
public
