[Music]
thank you
for the last couple months I've been
obsessed with an idea and the idea is
that there are still things out there in
space that aren't known that can be
discovered by people like you and me
with our own telescopes most people
think that NASA and all the astronomers
of history have already noticed and
found everything there is to see in the
night sky but this couldn't be further
from the truth what if I told you that I
discovered my own nebula in the night
sky that's larger than even the full
moon is this is the story about the
discovery of Falls object one
so before I explain to you a bit more
about this discovery we have to back up
and talk about what astrophotography is
in general simply put astrophotography
is the act of pointing a camera up into
the night sky and taking a photo it can
take many shapes and forms but the way I
and many other people choose to do it is
to attach a camera to our telescope
point this telescope at the sky use a
tracking Mount to allow us to track the
motion of the night sky and to take many
long exposures of galaxies nebulated
Stars anything you can think of in the
night sky everyone who picks up a
telescope and looks through it with
their eyes and urines for more is
inevitably drawn down this path where
they realize the human eye cannot really
see that much in the night sky however
if you hook up a camera to the telescope
instead of your eyeball suddenly a whole
vast world of bright colors faint
nebulae star clusters and same galaxies
as far as you could imagine becomes
available to you most people will start
out with a simple telescope for visual
or maybe they'll even start out with a
simple DSLR camera and a lens either way
drive yourself outside of the city far
away from any lights and either of these
tools will open up a whole new world
that was invisible to your eye even just
one exposure from a simple camera lens
in DSLR can show you our entire Milky
Way galaxy in just one shot for many of
us though the novelty of just a camera
and a lens simply isn't enough and we
have to go bigger we have to go deeper
we need larger telescopes and so most
people are drawn upon a path of slowly
upgrading their gear commonly people
will upgrade to a small 80 millimeter
telescope combined with some kind of a
tracking Mount this will follow the
rotation of the earth and stabilize the
movement of the night sky by allowing
you to take super long exposures and
this basically means there's nothing in
the universe that you can't really take
a photo of so over time people will
develop an intimate relationship with
the night sky you'll go to all the
famous places like the Orion Nebula the
Andromeda galaxy and you'll become
familiar with this hidden world above
your head and it's really fantastic for
the first couple years
but as you get more and more into it
you're going to realize that there's a
problem and it's a creative problem
[Music]
so the great thing with any other kind
of Photography is that a moment is
different from day to day from hour to
hour you can't ever revisit it and have
it be the same but this really isn't the
case with astrophotography our subjects
are still on the time scale of our whole
life span when we go look at the
Andromeda galaxy it's the same as the
day we looked at it before the year we
looked at it before and the decade that
we looked at it before and this is in
essence the problem everything is static
everything stays the same and for this
reason everyone who does
astrophotography is taking the same
photo of the same thing over and over
and over and over again now there's
nothing wrong with taking the exact same
photo someone else has taken you could
maybe try and make your photo a bit
better than someone else's
but you can see there's a fundamental
creative struggle with astrophotography
how do you find something new how do you
take a photo that hasn't been taken
before this is the big question and this
is the path that leads you down to
Discovery
there are new things out there there are
things that nobody has taken photos of
all you have to do is go looking and
find them
you've decided to take the path Less
Traveled you want to find something no
one else has seen before how do you even
start how do you know if you've seen
something new this is a really important
question when you go out looking for
things and this is one that you really
can't answer without talking about my
friends Marcel and Xavier early on in my
obsession I leaned heavily on my friends
Marcel and Xavier for a bit of their
guidance they together have discovered
over a hundred different planetary
nebula and other objects in the
nighttime sky and pretty much anyone who
thinks about discovering something new
eventually ends up asking them for help
and they're always gracious enough to
give plenty of advice which I leaned on
quite heavily namely the issue of
knowing whether or not you've actually
found something new this is a really big
question Marcel and Xavier tolerated me
sending them many different things that
I thought were new
some things were very interesting
objects that have never been
photographed before but were already
known about other things were less
interesting and I even sent them a
couple of lens flares that I thought
were real nebula so they tolerated a
bunch of my Shenanigans and I learned
the ropes of how to verify the novelty
of a discovery from them which is going
to be a very important tool for me going
forward so now I've learned to tell the
difference between what is new and what
isn't the last part of the question is
where do you even Point your telescope
to find something new and that's the big
problem luckily though I have a
telescope that was very well suited to
address this kind of problem my
particular telescope at Takahashi fsq106
is one that I purchased with the intents
to do panoramas doing a panorama and
astrophotography is one of the hardest
things you can do you need long exposure
and if you have to divide that up
amongst a series of panoramic photos you
spread yourself very thin with your
exposure time the more exposure time the
better the scope I chose was optimized
for this purpose where I'm looking at
wide fields of view and I'm collecting
light incredibly quickly unintentionally
this proved to be exactly the type of
telescope that I would need to go out
and look for objects in particular when
you're looking for faint things out
there in space you ideally want to be
able to scan the large portion of the
sky and you want to be able to do it
very quick and unintentionally I had
created a telescope system that was
perfect for just this task since I have
a telescope that can cover a huge
portion of the sky very quickly
the strategy I chose upon for looking
for objects is pretty dumb I have just
been pointing my telescope at random
spots in the night sky sometimes I would
look at things in a structured Manner
and follow a grid pattern and other
times I would just pick random spots to
look at I have always been struck and by
the belief that there are things out
there everywhere in the sky to be
discovered you just literally have to go
looking where no one else has gone
looking
and that's what I decided to do one
night in December so on this particular
evening I decided to point my telescope
at a semi-random spot the spot sat
between the seagull nebula and the
rosette nebula in a region of space
where there are no famous objects and
nobody is really pulling their telescope
to take photos there now this part of
the sky was still in the central part of
the Milky Way so there's a high density
of stars and perhaps a high likelihood
for nebulae to be forming there you see
the types of nebulas we're looking for
require some types of stars to create
them they either need to be white dwarf
stars in the center of a planetary
nebula where a star will shed its outer
layers and the gas will become ionized
and start to Glow or we just need to
find a hot enough star that it ionizes
the surrounding gas now if you think
about this you're looking for stars
essentially and you need to be looking
for where they are the most dense to
have the best odds to find something so
this was a bit of my thought process I
should look somewhere where there's a
high density of stars and not really in
a place that's often looked at by other
astrophotographers but not only this I
needed to look in a particular filter
that not a lot of other
astrophotographers are using and this
filter is the oxygen 3 filter which
passes through light from doubly ionized
oxygen atoms out in space now in
astrophotography there's three main
filters that everyone else is looking
through there's the hydrogen Alpha
filter the sulfur 2 filter and the
oxygen 3 filter
professional astronomers have already
taken great interest in the hydrogen
Alpha filter and have captured most of
the night sky in this wavelength so if
you're going to look for something
totally new and a place where they have
already looked it better not be in
hydrogen Alpha because it's probably
already known about on the other hand
sulfur 2 and oxygen 3 have no surveys in
those filter bands meaning there are no
professionals there's no NASA there's no
great map you can go look to to see
where oxygen 3 is in the whole night sky
this doesn't exist and This falls upon
us to do ourselves if we want to look
for new things and this is a strategy
I'm adopting where I will look
specifically an oxygen 3 in a wavelength
where no one else is looking this will
hopefully only show me new things so on
this particular night I slapped on my
oxygen 3 filter I pointed at my Target
location and I let my telescope go for
the night fall falling asleep not
expecting too much the following morning
now when I woke up and compiled my data
from the previous night
I noticed a smudge now you see a lot of
smudges when you go looking for them but
this smudge was different
I checked the catalogs to see if anyone
knew about this particular smudge and
beyond my belief this smudge was
completely unknown
this is the moment now it's on you found
something new totally new and now you
get to take a photo of it
now the real fun began I started
collecting as much exposure time as I
could on this object and for the next
three months in between some severe
weather in California I managed to stack
about 84 hours of exposure time this is
equivalent to over three days in pure
darkness and what I managed to capture
was beyond my belief
what you're seeing here now is a star
field this star field is where Falls
object one is located if we start to
unveil the gases captured by our
narrowband filters first we can see it
in hydrogen Alpha
there doesn't seem to be too much going
on it is just gas there is no huge main
structure however if we see what it
looks like in oxygen 3 all of a sudden
the object is unveiled not much of
anything is known about this nebula but
here's what we do know it is about 4 000
light years away and about 58 light
years wide this makes it over 340
trillion miles wide an exceptionally
large nebula to be discovered at its
core lies what we believe to be a hot
subdwarf type star this is an extremely
high temperature star likely so hot that
it is ionizing the surrounding gas
causing it to Glow brightly in the
oxygen 3 wavelength in our night sky
this nebula is a little bit larger than
even the full moon is part of the reason
it wasn't detected until recently is
because of its huge size
because it's so large it's so big that
it doesn't really fit inside of the
camera for many different professional
observatories around the world it can
only really be seen in a wide field of
view amateur telescope so that was the
whole story on how I discovered a nebula
I hope this inspires you to go out and
explore for new things on your own
foreign
that video as much as I did making it I
wanted to take a second to let you know
about some of the upcoming things I have
going on I have a couple
astrophotography workshops coming up
with my good friends Derek Culver and
Ian Lauer so if you're interested in
coming to join us on an epic stargazing
Adventure then check the link in my bio
maybe uh come along and discover
something of your own while we're out
taking photos
I also want to let you know that I have
fine art prints of this image available
on my website and I've also got an
astrophotography image processing course
on my website so if you're interested in
helping to support the channel and maybe
getting a little bit of art or learning
how to edit your own astrophotos feel
free to check out my website I've also
got links to some telescopes I would
recommend if you're just starting out in
my description so all these things will
help support the channel and help
support the discovery efforts I hope you
all enjoyed the video and I'll catch you
on the next one
