haider after all the videos I'm a there
are some people out there that just
don't get it and say it's the currents
that kills not the voltage to prove it
to you once and for all I'll be using my
power supply here connected to these
wires this power supply can generate
twenty volts hundred fifty yes it
generates twenty volts and hundred fifty
amps let's short it in a more controlled
manner well you see when I shorted the
voltage goes out with you I was saying
when you showed it together the voltage
you can see goes to zero and the current
goes 150 Scott the power supply is set
to 20 volts and I'm holding the wires
with my fingers I can't even well with
this power supply although this power
supply can generate huge amounts of
current it can send it through my body
because it's only set to 20 volts I
can't even feel it on my fingers I like
to put it on my tongue but before that I
have to reduce the voltage to something
like 1 volt because you know the
resistance of the tongue is much smaller
than the skin and still if I short the
power supply I get the same 150 amps ok
you can see it still sparks let's try it
out I thought I set it to 1 volts don't
completely trust the gages on your
instruments and always double-check them
with a meter now if I short the wires I
still get the same 150 amps and it makes
sparks but the sparks are smaller
because the voltage is is smaller and
therefore the total power is smaller
let's put it on my count see nothing let
me explain the simplest electrical
formula is that voltage is equal to
current times resistance so if the
voltage is 1 volt and if the resistance
of my tongue is 10,000 ohms then the
current through my tongue will be only
0.1 milli amps in order to create 1 amps
through my tongue I'll need 1 times
10,000 ohms or 10,000 volts across my
tongue see the voltage is the energy
required to create current in order to
get hurt you need enough current and to
have enough current you need high enough
voltage anything that moves including
the electrons started moving because
some sort of energy has made it move you
will not have current without the
voltage at least in room temperatures I
don't know what kind of diabolical
mumbo-jumbo we'll have
absolute zero saying that the voltage
doesn't kill is like saying that the
earthquake in the middle of the ocean
doesn't kill it's the tsunami afterwards
that kills with that analogy if I shoot
you it's not my fault it's the bullets
fault this just in
bullets are taking lives of our citizens
while sending our innocent people to
jail whose only crime is to hold the gun
and pull the trigger swear to God I just
wanted to scratch his poor head I didn't
know a bullet is capable of such
animosity in other news our scientists
confirmed that the sole reason for the
global warming is the melting polar ice
caps there is just not enough ice to
cool the planet anymore
also they discovered that the main
reason for divorce is marriage so it's
not just the current that kills it's the
current and voltage hand-in-hand here's
the power supply at 4 volts and I'm
going to connect this thin wire to it
and you can see how the wire melts and
bears others so the power supply can
generate enough current to melt the wire
still nothing so I hope I'm clear please
don't repeat that the current kill it's
not the voltage there's a famous saying
that goes like this like share and
subscribe to my channel
